\U~‘1‘7'~M5 8’
FEB 0 2000
510(k) Premarket Notiﬁcation Summary
  for
SpectRx BiliChek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer

1. SPONSOR
SpectRx, Inc.
6025A Unity Drive
Norcross GA 30071
Contact Person: Mr. Keith D. Ignotz

‘ Telephone: 770-242-8723
Date Prepared: December 29, 1999

2. DEVICE NAME
Proprietary Name: BiliChek Non-inVasiVe Bilirubin Analyzer
Common/Usual Name: Non-invasive bilirubin analyzer
Classiﬁcation Name: Bilirubin (total and unbound) in the neonate test system

(21 CFR 862.1113)

3. PREDICATE DEVICES
Respironics BiliChek Non-invasive Bilirubin Analyzer (K98307 1) A
Chromatics III (K964590)
Leica Unistat Bilirubinometer (K922770). I

4. DEVICE DESCRIPTION
The Bilichek consists of the BiliChek hand-held unit, the BiliCal Individual
calibration tips, a charger base, and rechargeable battery packs. The BiliChek
hand-held unit contains a light source, a ﬁberoptic probe, a microspectrometer,
and a microprocessor control circuit within an 8.5 x 2x 4 inch assembly.

I The hand-held unit is battery powered and is controlled by an internal
microprocessor. Operator interface with the microprocessor is achieved through
three buttons and a liquid crystal display (LCD). The buttons are used to select
different set-up options. The measurement is initiated when the operator presses

SpectRx 510(k) 127/29/99 CONFIDENTIAL .
BiliChek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer Page F—1

the Trigger button on the bottom of the unit. The LCD window on the device
displays the calculated bilirubin value, date and time, battery status, and permits
the unit set-up parameters to be programmed.
The BiliCal disposable tips protect the ﬁber-optic probe, ensure a hygienic contact
with the patient, provide a means for calibration of the BiliChek, and serve as a ,
positioning aid. The disposable tip includes a removable target with calibration
material which is used in the initial calibration of the device prior to use on each
patient. Before a measurement is taken, the BiliChek runs a baseline reference
calibration scan which measures the removable target on the tip. After calibration,
the target is removed from the tip to expose an optically clear window through
which measurements are made. Sensors in the BiliChek detect when the tip is
_ correctly installed and the depression of the tip under pressure when it is applied
to the patient.
Two rechargeable nickel-cadmium battery packs are supplied with the system.
The battery pack is inserted in the bottom of the BiliChek Hand-held Unit. The
BiliChek Hand-Held Unit includes status indicators which indicate if the battery
is low or dead. When fully charged, each battery pack provides sufficient power
to conduct 100 measurements. The Bilichek battery charger includes two charging
wells, one for the Bilichek and the other for the spare battery pack. The charger is
provided power from a 110 volt power supply.
5. INTENDED USE
The Bilichek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer is a computer assisted non-
invasive transcutaneous bilirubinometer which is intended as an index to predict
serum bilirubin levels in neonates less than eight days old, without regard to
a. gender, gestational age, race, or bodyweight. The Bilichek provides a numerical
measurement of predicted bilirubin count in mg/dL within a clinically beneﬁcial
range that has been correlated with total serum bilirubin concentration measured
by High Pressure Liquid Chromatography (HPLC). The device is used in the
hospital or institutional environment to assist clinicians in monitoring the status of
neonates for the development of hyperbilirubinemia. Neonates whose Bilichek
test results are indicative of hyperbilirubinemia are evaluated by their physician(s)
s for appropriate patient management
"  .
BiliChek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer Page F-2

6. TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND SUBSTANTIAL EQuIv.xLENCE

The SpectRx BiliChek Noninvasive Bilirubin Analyzer is identical to the

Respironics BiliChek Noninvasive Bilirubin Analyzer which was cleared by FDA

under 510(k) K98307l. There are no technological differences between the

devices since they are identical.

The BiliChek is substantially equivalent to the Chromatics Color Sciences

International Colormate III (K964590) and to the Unistat Bilirubinometer

(K922770). All of these devices have similar intended uses and technological

characteristics. Each device measures the presence of hyperbilirubinemia in

neonates, and each device bases its measurements on the absorbance
_ characteristics of bilirubin in the visible spectrum.
  7. PERFORMANCE TESTING

Testing of the SpectRx BiliChek included the following:

a. Biocompatibility: Materials used in the BiliChek were tested for
biocompatibility and shown to be safe for use on intact skin.

b. Electrical safety testing. The BiliChek System was tested for compliance with
IEC 601-1. The results show that the device complies with the requirements of
IEC 601-l.

c. Electronic hardware testing: Functional testing of the printed circuit boards for
the main board and charger board was performed and demonstrated that these
boards meet their respective performance speciﬁcations.

d. BiliChek Battery and Temperature Testing: These tests veriﬁed that the

. BiliChek battery pack will operate the BiliChek for at least 100
measurements. In addition, the tests verified that the BiliChek meets
speciﬁcations for operating over the specified temperature range of +5°C to
+40°C.

e. Calibration Material Stability: The calibration material was exposed to
elevated temperature for an extended period of time to simulate exposure to
extreme enviromnental conditions and to accelerate aging. The material was
found to be stable over the tested temperature range.

f. EMI/EMC Testing: Immunity and emissions testing was performed and
demonstrates that the BiliChek System complies with the requirements of IEC
601-1-2 for immunity and ENSSOI 1 for emissions.

SpectRx 510(k) 12/29/99 Comosmtar _
BiliChek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer Page F-3

g. Software testing: The software/firmware used in the BiliChek was tested in

accordance with the software test plan and demonstrates that the software
T program meets the performance specifications.

h. Clinical testing: Clinical testing of the BiliChek was conducted to demonstrate
the ability of the BiliChek device to non-invasively measure the bilirubin
levels of infants less than eight days old prior to the use of phototherapy or
any related therapeutic intervention. Bilirubin values measured by HPLC and
with the BiliChek were compared to determine the accuracy of the BiliChek.
The test results demonstrate a statistically and clinically signiﬁcant correlation
between the BiliChek and serum bilirubin levels as indicated by HPLC. There
were no signiﬁcant differences in the performance of the BiliChek attributed
to race, sex, gestational age at delivery, bodyweight, or presence in the NICU.

- There were no injuries or deaths that occurred while the device was being
used or any adverse effects reported from use of the device.
 
p BiliChek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer Page F-4 '

5: -/C& DEPARTMENT o1= HEALTH 31. HUMAN SERVICES
blrirk Food and Drug Administration
2098 Gaither Road
Rockville MD 20850
FEB 21 2800

Mr. James R. Veale

Vice President, Regulatory Services

Medical Device Consultants, Inc.

49 Plain Street

North Attleboro, Massachusetts 02760

Re: K994438

I Trade Name: BiliChek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer
Regulatory Class: I reserved
Product Code: MQM
Dated: December 29, 1999
Received: December 30, 1999

Dear Mr. Veale:

We have reviewed your Section 510(k) notiﬁcation of intent to market the device referenced
above and we have detennined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use
stated in the enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce
prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that
have been reclassiﬁed in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (Act). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual
registration, listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against
misbranding and adulteration.

If your device is classiﬁed (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III
(Premarket Approval), it may be subject to such additional controls. Existing major regulations
affecting your device can be found in the Code of Federal Reulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 895.

A substantially equivalent determination assumes compliance with the Current Good

Manufacturing Practice requirements, as set forth in the Quality System Regulation (QS) for
Medical Devices: General regulation (21 CFR Part 820) and that, through periodic QS
inspections, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will verify such assumptions. Failure to
comply with the GMP regulation may result in regulatory action. In addition, FDA may publish
further announcements concerning your device in the Federal Reister. Please note: this
response to your premarket notiﬁcation submission does not affect any obligation you might
have under sections 531 through 542 of the Act for devices under the Electronic Product
Radiation Control provisions, or other Federal laws or regulations.

Page 2
This letter will allow you to begin marketing your device as described in your 510(k) premarket
notiﬁcation. The FDA ﬁnding of substantial equivalence of your device to a legally marketed
predicate device results in a classiﬁcation for your device and thus, permits your device to
proceed to the market.
If you desire speciﬁc advice for your device on our labeling regulation (21 CFR Part 801 and
. additionally 809.10 for in vitro diagnostic devices), please contact the Ofﬁce of Compliance at
(301) 594-4588. Additionally, for questions on the promotion and advertising of your device,
please contact the Ofﬁce of Compliance at (301) 594-4639. Also, please note the regulation
entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notiﬁcation" (21CFR 807.97). Other general
information on your responsibilities under the Act may be obtained from the Division of Small
0 Manufacturers Assistance at its toll-free number (800) 638-2041 or (301) 443-6597 or at its
internet address “http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/dsma/dsmamainhtml". -
Sincerely yours,
Steven 1. Gutman, M.D., M.B.A.
Director
Division of Clinical Laboratory Devices
Ofﬁce of Device Evaluation
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
Enclosure

51002) Numher  lznown): K   
1 Device Name: Bilichelz, Non-Invasive Biliruhin Analyzer

Indications For Use: A

The Bi1iChe12 Non-Invasive Biliruhin Analyzer is a computer assisted non-invasive
transcutaneous hiliruhinometer which is intended as an index to predict serum 1)i1iru1)in
levels in neonates less than eight days old, without regard to gender, gestational age, race,
or hodyweight. The Bilichelz provides a numerical measurement ot predicted hiliruhin
count in mg/dL within a clinically laeneticial range that has heen correlated with total

a serum hiliruhin Concentration measured hy High Performance Liquid Chromatography

(HPLC). The device is used in the hospital or institutional environment to assist
clinicians in monitoring the status of neonates tor the development oi hyper1)i1iru1)inemia.
Neonates whose Bi1iChe12 test results are indicative ot hyperlsiliruhinemia are evaluated 13y 1
their p1-xysician(s) for appropriate patient management.

(PLEASE DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE - CONTINUE ON ANOTHER

PAGE IF NECESSARY)
Concurrence ot CDRH, Ottice of Device Evaluation (ODE)
 -9 «— C«=—,uA
Division of Clinical Laboratory " °
1.; av: -
5100‘) Number 

Prescription Use  O13 Over-The-Counter Use

(Per 21 CPR 801.109)

(Optional Fomiat 1-2-96)

SpectRx 510(k) 12/29/99 ""1""
BiliChek Non-Invasive Bilirubin Analyzer Page vi

